One of the nice things
about policy-based methods,
is that they give us
a natural way to deal with
very large or even
continuous action spaces.
We don't have to use a policy
parameterization that
assigns individual
probabilities to each action.
We could instead learn
the parameters of
some distribution over actions.
In this video, we will
discuss how to learn
a state-dependent
Gaussian distribution
over continuous actions.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to derive
the actor-critic update
for a Gaussian policy and
apply average reward
actor-critic with
a Gaussian policy to task
with continuous actions.
Let's look at the same
pendulum swing-up task
we explored last time.
The state-space and reward
is exactly the same.
This time, we will use
a continuous interval
for the action space
instead of just three
discrete levels
of angular acceleration.
The angular acceleration
can be anywhere
between minus 3 and plus 3,
which are the
minimum and maximum.
We cannot assign
a probability to every action
separately because the space
of possible actions is infinite.
One solution is to
restrict actions to
a discrete subset of
the full range of possibilities.
This is what we did previously.
In this case, we compromise
by picking a set of
actions that were gentle enough
to allow fine-grain control.
But this also inhibits
the agent's ability to
apply larger acceleration.
We'd really like
the agent to be able to
apply large
acceleration when it's
appropriate and
smaller acceleration
to correct its balance.
Towards this goal,
another strategy is to
parameterize the policy as
a continuous distribution,
such as a Gaussian distribution.
A Gaussian random variable x has
the probability density
function shown here.
Here are a few examples of
this PDF with different
means and variances.
Note that the y-axis
in this case is
density and not probability.
Probability density means
that for a given range,
the probability of x
lying in that range will
be the area under the
probability density curve.
The parameter Mu controls
the mean of the distribution.
If Mu is 0, the distribution
will be centered around 0.
For this curve, Mu as minus 2 so
the distribution is
centered around minus 2.
The parameter Sigma is
the standard deviation,
the square root of the variance.
If Sigma is low like this curve,
the distribution will be sharply
peaked around the mean value Mu.
As Sigma becomes larger,
the distribution is more
spread out like this curve,
and x is drawn from
a wider range of values.
Let's define our policy using
a Gaussian over actions.
We make the parameters Mu and
Sigma functions of the state.
This way, the agent can assign
different action distributions
to different states.
Mu can be any
parameterized function.
But to keep things simple,
let's make it a linear function
of the state features.
The policy parameters
associated with
Mu are denoted by Theta Mu.
The parameter's function
Sigma has one constraint.
It must be positive.
To enforce this, we
will parameterize it
as the exponential of
a linear function.
The policy parameters
associated with
Sigma are denoted by Theta Sigma.
Our policy parameters
now consists of
these two stack parameter
vectors of equal size.
We've defined our
Gaussian policy.
Remember, the main point
of a policy is
that it gives us a way
to select actions.
To select actions
with this policy,
we sample from the Gaussian.
Many programming
libraries include
functions to sample
from Gaussian,
so we won't worry
about that here.
The procedure is simple.
In a state, we compute Mu
and Sigma from that state.
We then call the Gaussian
random number generator
with that Mu and Sigma.
In one state, Mu and Sigma
might look like this.
For this state, a wide range
of actions are likely
to be sampled.
Here's an action that might
be sampled in this state.
In another state, Mu and
Sigma might look like this.
For this state,
only a narrow range
of actions are likely
to be sampled.
Here's an action that might
be sampled in this state.
Sigma essentially controls
the degree of exploration.
We typically initialize
the variance to be
large so that a wide range
of actions are tried.
As learning progresses, we
expect the variance to shrink
and the policy to concentrate
around the best action
in each state.
Like many parameterized policies,
the agent can reduce
the amount of
exploration over time
through learning.
Though we now have
continuous actions
instead of discrete actions,
we can use the same
actor-critic architecture.
The algorithm is
actually very similar.
The main difference is that
the gradient of the policy
is different because the
parameterization is different.
Underneath, the objective
also looks slightly
different because we integrate
over actions instead of summing.
But sampling the gradient
ends up being the same.
So all we have to do is work out
the gradient of
the natural log of the policy.
We'll skip the steps here,
but the result is
shown on the slide.
As an exercise, try to
verify it for yourself.
So we now have an updated rule
for continuous actions.
But why did we do all this
given that the
discrete actions that
we used previously seemed to
work fine on this problem?
The most obvious reason
is it might not be
straightforward to choose
a discrete set of actions.
For example, imagine a robot
trained to play golf.
Putting accurately requires
quite a bit of precision.
We could try to pick
a discrete set of forces
to apply to the club and
hope it's good enough.
But inevitably, there will be
situations where it isn't.
Depending on the
distance and terrain,
we may need to use
the full range of forces.
Continuous actions also allow
us to generalize over actions.
For example, the Gaussian
policies smoothly
assigns probability density
to nearby actions.
Imagine an action is
found to be good and
the update increases density
for that action.
The density for a nearby action
will also increase with
the agent generalizing that
those actions are
likely also to be good.
Finally, even if the true action
said is discrete but very large,
it might be better to treat
them as a continuous range.
This gives a natural way to
generalize over them and
avoids the costly process of
exploring each one independently.
Now, let's see how this
actor-critic algorithm
performs on the pendulum
swing-up task.
Again, we swept over
a many step size values.
We use separate step sizes
for Theta Mu and Theta Sigma.
Here we visualize the policy
in early learning.
It doesn't look too
different from when we
were using a discrete action set.
It quickly learns to rock
the pendulum back and forth.
The size of the area
around the pivot indicates
the magnitude of
the angular acceleration
applied at a given time.
Here we visualize the policy
at the end of learning.
It's learning a very
nice balancing policy.
Here again, we added
perturbations to highlight
the robustness of
the learned policy.
That's it for today.
You should now understand
how we can apply
actor-critic to problems
with continuous actions,
and we showed an example of
how this can be done with
a Gaussian policy
parameterization
in a simple environment.
Bye for now.